OBSDOCS-1446: Monitoring 4.18 release notes, new features (#87962)
openshift/openshift-docs: release_notes/ocp-4-18-release-notes.adoc

[id="ocp-release-notes-monitoring_{context}"]
=== Monitoring

The in-cluster monitoring stack for this release includes the following new and modified features. 

[id="ocp-4-18-monitoring-updates-to-monitoring-stack-components-and-dependencies"]
==== Updates to monitoring stack components and dependencies

This release includes the following version updates for in-cluster monitoring stack components and dependencies:

* Metrics Server to 0.7.2
* Prometheus 2.55.1
* Prometheus Operator to 0.78.1
* Thanos to 0.36.1

[id="ocp-4-18-monitoring-changes-to-alerting-rules"]
==== Changes to alerting rules

[NOTE]
====
Red{nbsp}Hat does not guarantee backward compatibility for recording rules or alerting rules.
====

> * With this update, you can create user workload alerting and recording rules that query multiple projects at the same time.

Reviewer: :+1:

Reviewer 2: Sorry to unresolve this thread: Let's treat this as its own feature. We'll generate alert changes still and add them here

[id="ocp-4-18-monitoring-added-scrape-and-evaluation-intervals-for-uwm-prometheus"]
==== Added scrape and evaluation intervals for user workload monitoring Prometheus

With this update, you can configure the intervals between consecutive scrapes and between rule evaluations for user-workload monitoring Prometheus.

[id="ocp-4-18-monitoring-early-validation-for-configurations-in-monitoring-config-maps"]
==== Added early validation for the monitoring configurations in monitoring config maps

> This update introduces a validation for changes to monitoring configurations in `cluster-monitoring-config` and `user-workload-monitoring-config` config maps to provide shorter feedback loops and enhance user experience.

Reviewer 3: how about

```suggestion
This update introduces early validation for changes to monitoring configurations in `cluster-monitoring-config` and `user-workload-monitoring-config` config maps to provide shorter feedback loops and enhance user experience.
```

> 

Author: Hello @machine424 can you please check this RN entry? Thank you!

[id="ocp-4-18-monitoring-configure-cross-project-alerting-rules-for-uwm"]
==== Added the proxy environment variables to Alertmanager containers

> With this update, Alertmanager uses the proxy environment variables, therefore, you can enable proxying for all alert receivers.

Reviewer: Maybe clarify further that you can set `proxy_from_environment: true` in your alert receivers to leverage the global HTTP proxy configuration?

[id="ocp-release-notes-monitoring_{context}"]
=== Monitoring

The in-cluster monitoring stack for this release includes the following new and modified features:

[id="ocp-4-18-monitoring-updates-to-monitoring-stack-components-and-dependencies"]
==== Updates to monitoring stack components and dependencies

This release includes the following version updates for in-cluster monitoring stack components and dependencies:

* Metrics Server to 0.7.2
* Prometheus to 2.55.1
* Prometheus Operator to 0.78.1
* Thanos to 0.36.1

// Note: no alerting rule changes for this release

// [id="ocp-4-18-monitoring-changes-to-alerting-rules"]
// ==== Changes to alerting rules

// [NOTE]
// ====
// Red{nbsp}Hat does not guarantee backward compatibility for recording rules or alerting rules.

> // ====

Author: To clarify here: After the discussions with the engineering team, we are adding no alerting rule changes for this release, but I am keeping our template commented out so that it is easier to pick up with next release that will probably include alerting changes again.

[id="ocp-4-18-monitoring-added-scrape-and-evaluation-intervals-for-uwm-prometheus"]
==== Added scrape and evaluation intervals for user workload monitoring Prometheus

With this update, you can configure the intervals between consecutive scrapes and between rule evaluations for Prometheus for user workload monitoring.

[id="ocp-4-18-monitoring-early-validation-for-configurations-in-monitoring-config-maps"]
==== Added early validation for the monitoring configurations in monitoring config maps

This update introduces early validation for changes to monitoring configurations in `cluster-monitoring-config` and `user-workload-monitoring-config` config maps to provide shorter feedback loops and enhance user experience.

[id="ocp-4-18-monitoring-configure-cross-project-alerting-rules-for-uwm"]
==== Added the proxy environment variables to Alertmanager containers

> With this update, Alertmanager uses the proxy environment variables. Therefore, if you configured an HTTP cluster-wide proxy, you can enable proxying by setting the `proxy_from_environment` parameter to `true` in your alert receivers or at the global config level in Alertmanager.

Author: I believe it is in active voice already :thinking:

> With this update, Alertmanager uses the proxy environment variables. Therefore, if you configured an HTTP cluster-wide proxy, you can enable proxying by setting the `proxy_from_environment` parameter to `true` in your alert receivers or at the global config level in Alertmanager.

Reviewer 4: Seems like you are right. Sorry for the false alarm!
This PR is good to be merged.

[id="ocp-release-notes-monitoring_{context}"]
=== Monitoring

The in-cluster monitoring stack for this release includes the following new and modified features. 

[id="ocp-4-18-monitoring-updates-to-monitoring-stack-components-and-dependencies"]
==== Updates to monitoring stack components and dependencies

This release includes the following version updates for in-cluster monitoring stack components and dependencies:

* Metrics Server to 0.7.2
* Prometheus 2.55.1
* Prometheus Operator to 0.78.1
* Thanos to 0.36.1

[id="ocp-4-18-monitoring-changes-to-alerting-rules"]
==== Changes to alerting rules

[NOTE]
====

> Red{nbsp}Hat does not guarantee backward compatibility for recording rules or alerting rules.

Author: Thank you for the feedback! I see that the word is okay to use in negative, so I am keeping this for consistency with the previous releases (but it is getting commented out for this release anyway :+1: )

====

* Added two new alerts for image registries, to alert on conditions where no new image is committed to the local registry:
** `ImageRegistryStorageReadOnly`
** `ImageRegistryStorageFull`

[id="ocp-4-18-monitoring-added-scrape-and-evaluation-intervals-for-uwm-prometheus"]
==== Added scrape and evaluation intervals for user workload monitoring Prometheus

> With this update, you can configure the intervals between consecutive scrapes and between rule evaluations for user workload monitoring Prometheus.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
With this update, you can configure the intervals between consecutive scrapes and between rule evaluations for user workloads that monitor Prometheus.
```

Not sure if this is correct but "Prometheus" seems to dangle.

Author: True, thank you! I changed  it to make it clearer what this means :+1:
